Chapter 7 inheritance (#13)
LaunchCodeEducation/java-web-dev-curriculum: content/inheritance/reading/cat-classes/_index.md

---
title: "A Tale of Two Cats"
date: 2021-10-01T09:28:27-05:00
weight: 3
draft: false
---

> Let’s revisit our `Cat` and `HouseCat` friends. In `java-web-dev-exercises`, open `src/org/launchcode/java/demos/inheritance` and examine the two classes inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s revisit our `Cat` and `HouseCat` friends. In `java-web-dev-project-17`, open `src/main/java/org.launchcode.java.demos/lsn6inheritance` and examine the two classes inside.
```

In addition, when overriding a method, we may call the method from the base class that we are overriding by using `super`. This calls the overridden method in the base class via `super.noise()`, carrying out the original behavior if the given conditional branch is reached.

## `Object` Class

In a previous lesson, we introduced the special methods `equals` and `toString`. All classes contain default implementations of these methods that can be overridden. In fact, these default methods are part of a class called `Object`. If a class does not explicitly extend another class, then it implicitly extends `Object`. So the default implementations of `equals` and `toString` (along with a few other methods) are made available to us via inheritance.

Note that we should use the `@Override` annotation when we provide new implementations of these methods as well.

### References:
- [The @Override annotation (docs.oracle.com)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/index.html)

> - [The Object Class (docs.oracle.com)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [The Object Class (docs.oracle.com)](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Objects.html
```

> - [The Object Class (docs.oracle.com)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/index.html)

Reviewer: Please update links to be more specific.

Author: updated links
